# Paper Collection for Graph Processing

### Survey
    - "A Survey of Graph Processing Paradigms, Version 1"
    2019-09-10
    https://curate.nd.edu/show/v405s755m7t
    The last decade has seen the growth of data sets that are not only extremely large, but also often unstructured and very dynamic, with the desire to extract not just specific facts about specific entities but also relationships between possibly arbitrary entities. Graphs have emerged as a valuable and productive paradigm for expressing such problems, and there has been an explosion in new graph algorithms, graph query languages, and graph engines that perform such computations. However, given the rapid introduction of such new paradigms, there has been little attempt to look across all of them and identify what are the key new principles that are most valuable for graph computation. This report is an attempt to remedy this by documenting as many of these new paradigms as possible. It was started as part of an NSF grant CCF-1642280 on Scalable Graph Computation, with the goal of having separate chapters document in a semi-standard way the properties of new languages and tools that are graph oriented. Early on, several dozen different variants were identified, with some chapters written by the primary author of this report, Peter Kogge. In addition, a Fall 2018 graduate class in Scalable Graph Processing, given at the University of Notre Dame, had each student develop a separate chapter on one of the uncovered topics. It is expected that future updates to this document will cover addition paradigms.

    - "A Survey on Graph Processing Accelerators: Challenges and Opportunities"
    Submitted on 26 Feb 2019
    https://arxiv.org/abs/1902.10130
    Graph is a well known data structure to represent the associated relationships in a variety of applications, e.g., data science and machine learning. Despite a wealth of existing efforts on developing graph processing systems for improving the performance and/or energy efficiency on traditional architectures, dedicated hardware solutions, also referred to as graph processing accelerators, are essential and emerging to provide the benefits significantly beyond those pure software solutions can offer. In this paper, we conduct a systematical survey regarding the design and implementation of graph processing accelerator. Specifically, we review the relevant techniques in three core components toward a graph processing accelerator: preprocessing, parallel graph computation and runtime scheduling. We also examine the benchmarks and results in existing studies for evaluating a graph processing accelerator. Interestingly, we find that there is not an absolute winner for all three aspects in graph acceleration due to the diverse characteristics of graph processing and complexity of hardware configurations. We finially present to discuss several challenges in details, and to further explore the opportunities for the future research.

    - "Graph Processing on FPGAs: Taxonomy, Survey, Challenges"
    Submitted on 25 Feb 2019
    https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06697
    Graph processing has become an important part of various areas, such as machine learning, computational sciences, medical applications, social network analysis, and many others. Various graphs, for example web or social networks, may contain up to trillions of edges. The sheer size of such datasets, combined with the irregular nature of graph processing, poses unique challenges for the runtime and the consumed power. Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs) can be an energy-efficient solution to deliver specialized hardware for graph processing. This is reflected by the recent interest in developing various graph algorithms and graph processing frameworks on FPGAs. To facilitate understanding of this emerging domain, we present the first survey and taxonomy on graph computations on FPGAs. Our survey describes and categorizes existing schemes and explains key ideas. Finally, we discuss research and engineering challenges to outline the future of graph computations on FPGAs.

    - "Graph Processing on GPUs: A Survey"
    ACM Computing SurveysJanuary 2018
    https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3128571
    In the big data era, much real-world data can be naturally represented as graphs. Consequently, many application domains can be modeled as graph processing. Graph processing, especially the processing of the large-scale graphs with the number of vertices and edges in the order of billions or even hundreds of billions, has attracted much attention in both industry and academia. It still remains a great challenge to process such large-scale graphs. Researchers have been seeking for new possible solutions. Because of the massive degree of parallelism and the high memory access bandwidth in GPU, utilizing GPU to accelerate graph processing proves to be a promising solution. This article surveys the key issues of graph processing on GPUs, including data layout, memory access pattern, workload mapping, and specific GPU programming. In this article, we summarize the state-of-the-art research on GPU-based graph processing, analyze the existing challenges in detail, and explore the research opportunities for the future.


### Graph Processor
    - "Rubik: A Hierarchical Architecture for Efficient Graph Learning"
    Submitted on 26 Sep 2020
    https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.12495
    Graph convolutional network (GCN) emerges as a promising direction to learn the inductive representation in graph data commonly used in widespread applications, such as E-commerce, social networks, and knowledge graphs. However, learning from graphs is non-trivial because of its mixed computation model involving both graph analytics and neural network computing. To this end, we decompose the GCN learning into two hierarchical paradigms: graph-level and node-level computing. Such a hierarchical paradigm facilitates the software and hardware accelerations for GCN learning. We propose a lightweight graph reordering methodology, incorporated with a GCN accelerator architecture that equips a customized cache design to fully utilize the graph-level data reuse. We also propose a mapping methodology aware of data reuse and task-level parallelism to handle various graphs inputs effectively. Results show that Rubik accelerator design improves energy efficiency by 26.3x to 1375.2x than GPU platforms across different datasets and GCN models.
    
    - "A Survey on Graph Processing Accelerators: Challenges and Opportunities"
    Submitted on 26 Feb 2019
    https://arxiv.org/abs/1902.10130
    Graph is a well known data structure to represent the associated relationships in a variety of applications, e.g., data science and machine learning. Despite a wealth of existing efforts on developing graph processing systems for improving the performance and/or energy efficiency on traditional architectures, dedicated hardware solutions, also referred to as graph processing accelerators, are essential and emerging to provide the benefits significantly beyond those pure software solutions can offer. In this paper, we conduct a systematical survey regarding the design and implementation of graph processing accelerator. Specifically, we review the relevant techniques in three core components toward a graph processing accelerator: preprocessing, parallel graph computation and runtime scheduling. We also examine the benchmarks and results in existing studies for evaluating a graph processing accelerator. Interestingly, we find that there is not an absolute winner for all three aspects in graph acceleration due to the diverse characteristics of graph processing and complexity of hardware configurations. We finially present to discuss several challenges in details, and to further explore the opportunities for the future research.

    - "Graph Processing on FPGAs: Taxonomy, Survey, Challenges"
    Submitted on 25 Feb 2019
    https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06697
    Graph processing has become an important part of various areas, such as machine learning, computational sciences, medical applications, social network analysis, and many others. Various graphs, for example web or social networks, may contain up to trillions of edges. The sheer size of such datasets, combined with the irregular nature of graph processing, poses unique challenges for the runtime and the consumed power. Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs) can be an energy-efficient solution to deliver specialized hardware for graph processing. This is reflected by the recent interest in developing various graph algorithms and graph processing frameworks on FPGAs. To facilitate understanding of this emerging domain, we present the first survey and taxonomy on graph computations on FPGAs. Our survey describes and categorizes existing schemes and explains key ideas. Finally, we discuss research and engineering challenges to outline the future of graph computations on FPGAs. 

    - "AliGraph: A Comprehensive Graph Neural Network Platform"
    Submitted on 23 Feb 2019
    https://arxiv.org/abs/1902.08730
    An increasing number of machine learning tasks require dealing with large graph datasets, which capture rich and complex relationship among potentially billions of elements. Graph Neural Network (GNN) becomes an effective way to address the graph learning problem by converting the graph data into a low dimensional space while keeping both the structural and property information to the maximum extent and constructing a neural network for training and referencing. However, it is challenging to provide an efficient graph storage and computation capabilities to facilitate GNN training and enable development of new GNN algorithms. In this paper, we present a comprehensive graph neural network system, namely AliGraph, which consists of distributed graph storage, optimized sampling operators and runtime to efficiently support not only existing popular GNNs but also a series of in-house developed ones for different scenarios. The system is currently deployed at Alibaba to support a variety of business scenarios, including product recommendation and personalized search at Alibaba's E-Commerce platform. By conducting extensive experiments on a real-world dataset with 492.90 million vertices, 6.82 billion edges and rich attributes, AliGraph performs an order of magnitude faster in terms of graph building (5 minutes vs hours reported from the state-of-the-art PowerGraph platform). At training, AliGraph runs 40%-50% faster with the novel caching strategy and demonstrates around 12 times speed up with the improved runtime. In addition, our in-house developed GNN models all showcase their statistically significant superiorities in terms of both effectiveness and efficiency (e.g., 4.12%-17.19% lift by F1 scores).

    - "GraphR: Accelerating Graph Processing Using ReRAM"
    Submitted on 21 Aug 2017
    https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.06248
    This paper presents GRAPHR, the first ReRAM-based graph processing accelerator. GRAPHR follows the principle of near-data processing and explores the opportunity of performing massive parallel analog operations with low hardware and energy cost. The analog computation is suitable for graph processing because: 1) The algorithms are iterative and could inherently tolerate the imprecision; 2) Both probability calculation (e.g., PageRank and Collaborative Filtering) and typical graph algorithms involving integers (e.g., BFS/SSSP) are resilient to errors. The key insight of GRAPHR is that if a vertex program of a graph algorithm can be expressed in sparse matrix vector multiplication (SpMV), it can be efficiently performed by ReRAM crossbar. We show that this assumption is generally true for a large set of graph algorithms. GRAPHR is a novel accelerator architecture consisting of two components: memory ReRAM and graph engine (GE). The core graph computations are performed in sparse matrix format in GEs (ReRAM crossbars). The vector/matrix-based graph computation is not new, but ReRAM offers the unique opportunity to realize the massive parallelism with unprecedented energy efficiency and low hardware cost. With small subgraphs processed by GEs, the gain of performing parallel operations overshadows the wastes due to sparsity. The experiment results show that GRAPHR achieves a 16.01x (up to 132.67x) speedup and a 33.82x energy saving on geometric mean compared to a CPU baseline system. Com- pared to GPU, GRAPHR achieves 1.69x to 2.19x speedup and consumes 4.77x to 8.91x less energy. GRAPHR gains a speedup of 1.16x to 4.12x, and is 3.67x to 10.96x more energy efficiency compared to PIM-based architecture. 

    - "Graphicionado: A high-performance and energy-efficient accelerator for graph analytics"
    15-19 Oct. 2016
    https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7783759
    Graphs are one of the key data structures for many real-world computing applications and the importance of graph analytics is ever-growing. While existing software graph processing frameworks improve programmability of graph analytics, underlying general purpose processors still limit the performance and energy efficiency of graph analytics. We architect a domain-specific accelerator, Graphicionado, for high-performance, energy-efficient processing of graph analytics workloads. For efficient graph analytics processing, Graphicionado exploits not only data structure-centric datapath specialization, but also memory subsystem specialization, all the while taking advantage of the parallelism inherent in this domain. Graphicionado augments the vertex programming paradigm, allowing different graph analytics applications to be mapped to the same accelerator framework, while maintaining flexibility through a small set of reconfigurable blocks. This paper describes Graphicionado pipeline design choices in detail and gives insights on how Graphicionado combats application execution inefficiencies on general-purpose CPUs. Our results show that Graphicionado achieves a 1.76-6.54x speedup while consuming 50-100x less energy compared to a state-of-the-art software graph analytics processing framework executing 32 threads on a 16-core Haswell Xeon processor.

    - "Novel graph processor architecture, prototype system, and results"
    Sept. 2016
    https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7761635
    Graph algorithms are increasingly used in applications that exploit large databases. However, conventional processor architectures are inadequate for handling the throughput and memory requirements of graph computation. Lincoln Laboratory's graph-processor architecture represents a rethinking of parallel architectures for graph problems. Our processor utilizes innovations that include a sparse matrix-based graph instruction set, a cacheless memory system, accelerator-based architecture, a systolic sorter, high-bandwidth multidimensional toroidal communication network, and randomized communications. A field-programmable gate array (FPGA) prototype of the new graph processor has been developed with significant performance enhancement over conventional processors in graph computational throughput.

    ## Framework

    - "Scalable Graph Processing Frameworks: A Taxonomy and Open Challenges"
    ACM Computing SurveysJune 2018
    https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3199523
    The world is becoming a more conjunct place and the number of data sources such as social networks, online transactions, web search engines, and mobile devices is increasing even more than had been predicted. A large percentage of this growing dataset exists in the form of linked data, more generally, graphs, and of unprecedented sizes. While today's data from social networks contain hundreds of millions of nodes connected by billions of edges, inter-connected data from globally distributed sensors that forms the Internet of Things can cause this to grow exponentially larger. Although analyzing these large graphs is critical for the companies and governments that own them, big data tools designed for text and tuple analysis such as MapReduce cannot process them efficiently. So, graph distributed processing abstractions and systems are developed to design iterative graph algorithms and process large graphs with better performance and scalability. These graph frameworks propose novel methods or extend previous methods for processing graph data. In this article, we propose a taxonomy of graph processing systems and map existing systems to this classification. This captures the diversity in programming and computation models, runtime aspects of partitioning and communication, both for in-memory and distributed frameworks. Our effort helps to highlight key distinctions in architectural approaches, and identifies gaps for future research in scalable graph systems.